# 	Reduced adipocyte glutaminase activity promotes energy expenditure and metabolic health
In this github repository we compiled the code used to analyze the data, as well as provide further resources that can aid in reanalyzing the data. <br/><br/>
** Abstract ** <br/>
Glutamine and glutamate are interconverted by several enzymes and alterations in this metabolic cycle are linked to cardiometabolic traits. Herein, we show that obesity-associated insulin resistance is characterized by decreased plasma and white adipose tissue glutamine-to-glutamate ratios. We couple these stoichiometric changes to perturbed fat cell glutaminase and glutamine synthase mRNA/protein abundance, which together promote glutaminolysis. In human white adipocytes, reductions in glutaminase activity promote aerobic glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative capacity via increases in hypoxia-inducible factor 1α abundance, lactate levels and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. Systemic glutaminase inhibition in male and female mice or genetically in adipocytes of male mice, triggers the activation of thermogenic gene programs in inguinal adipocytes. Consequently, the knockout mice display higher energy expenditure and improved glucose tolerance compared to control littermates, even under high-fat diet conditions. Altogether, our findings highlight white adipocyte glutamine turnover as an important determinant of energy expenditure and metabolic health. <br/> <br/>

For questions please contanct Mikael Rydén (mikael.ryden@ki.se) and Niklas Mejhert (niklas.mejhert@ki.se)
